* cardinality and optionality
- define rule of relationship

* cardinality, amount of relationship
- types
  - 1:1
  - 1:n(n:1)
  - m:n
- cardinality notation criteria
cardinality notates the max amount that entity instance can have relationship with another entity instance
- 1
- N(one or more)

* 1:1
- suppose 
  - delivery entity exists
  - a single order instance is created, a single delivery instance that handles order instance is created
- a single order instance can have a relationship to one delivery instance
  - ex. order1 can have a relationship to delivery1
- a single delivery instance can have a relationship to one order instance
  - - ex. delivery1 can have a relationship to order1

* 1:n
- can a single user order multiple times? yes -> n
  - ex. user1 orders multiple times(order1, order2)
- can a single order be ordered by multiple users? no -> 1
  - ex. order1 is ordered by user1. another user can't order order1 together
- conclusion: user has relationship(1:n) to order

* 1:n - easily understanding
think from each instance view
- user1 view: user1 orders can have multiple orders. so, ?(user) -> n(order)
- order1 view: order1 is ordered by user1. so, 1(user) <- ?(order)
- combine both view: 1(user) - n(order)

* m:n
order-product relationship
- can a single order have multiple products? yes -> m
- can a single product be included in multiple orders? yes -> n
- conclusion: order has relationship(m:n) to product

* m:n - easily understanding
think from each instance view
- order1 view: order1 can have multiple products like product1, product2. so, ?(order) -> n(product)
- product1 view: product1 is included in multiple orders like order1, order2. so, m(order) <- ?(product)
- combine both view: m(order) - n(product)

* optionality, is relationship mandatory?
must a single instance be participated in a relationship? or not?
- suppose user-order relationship exists
  - for user instance, is the relationship to order mandatory or not?
    - must a user order? no -> optional
  - for order instance, is the relationship to user mandatory or not?
    - must an order belong to a user? yes -> mandatory
    

* conclusion
- by cardinality and optionality, the relationship is defined concisely
- a single user can order multiple times or can't order at all
- but a single order must belong to a single user