* solution by using enum
```java
// pseudo code
boolean canCancel(Order order) {
    if(order.status == OrderStatus.ORDER || order.status == OrderStatus.PAID) {
        return true;
    }
    return false;
}
``` 
pros
1. typo prevented(compile time validation)
2. when code is changed, tracking is easy
3. auto completion works
4. type safety is guaranteed
5. display name can be managed in enum

* enum <-> db synchronization
- orm(ex. jpa, typeorm) provide transformation

* problems of using application enum
1. deployment is required for code or attribute to be updated
- ex. vip display name 'VIP' -> 'VIP Member'
2. additional attribute management is hard
- application code is always updated when an attribute is updated
- ex. vip discount rate 5% -> 10%

common_code vs application enum selection criteria
tradeoff between development safety and maintenance flexibility

|                    | common_code(db)                  | application enum                         |
|--------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| main usage         | ui display, simple list query    | business logic branch condition          |
| code safety        | low(string type, typo risk)      | high(compile check, type safety)         |
| change flexibility | high(appliance by db is updated) | low(code update and deployment required) |
| auto completion    | not supports                     | ide strongly support                     |
| management agent   | dba/developer/admin              | developer                                |

* when, what to use?
1. is code used in application logic(like an if statement)? -> use enum
- reason: enum is required for code quality and maintainability like typo prevented, auto-completion works, refactoring easy
- example: order status, member grade(normal/vip), payment method(card/cash)
2. is code used for a simple list(dropdown) -> use common_code table
- reason: it is close to production setting. when db is updated, it must be immediately reflected in the application
- example: region code(seoul/busan/daegu), bank code(kbank/scb/hsbc)
3. are updates very frequent? -> use common_code table
- if data is updated many times in a day, enum is hard to manage
- in this case, production flexibility is required

* left problem
- order_status is important in business logic. display name or attribute is updated frequently.
- how to satisfy both requirements?